I find myself lurking around at night. Looking for something valuable but not quiet sure what is. I always find myself looking at the old warriors coliseum as if it held the buried treasure I seek. Is tonight the night? Perhaps.
I peer into the coliseum window and notice these noble columns once gleaming with fortune now sit in ruin as the midnight sky caresses the cracks cut deep.
I have to ask myself, how did something so magnificent and powerful come to ruin? It took generations to raise this place from the dust and in such a relatively short time to dust it shall return. During its "hay day" people from all across the land would gather. Nobleman would sit with the peasants. The filthy rich would dine with the impoverished. Here all man, woman, and child alike was just that. A human being. Just trying to share their experiences with another. Regardless of how the outside world saw people, here we were all equal. So just what happened?
Well ya see these columns were the works of many a men. Each column was truly unique to the artist who crafted them. Vividly expressing the emotions and intensity of mankind. All the pain, the hurt and betrayals. All the genocide and self-isolation. Carefully crafted into each column meant to support the crumbling ground I now walk on. 
Yeah. That's right isn't it? The dust and chunks of rock I stand on now was once the ceiling to this place. Supported elegantly by each of these discarded and forgotten columns.
Venturing deeper in I swear I can hear the sword clatter of the battles once fought here. The blood that was spilled in honor of their king here still stained the walls and cobblestone. The air still choking with coal smoke from the smithy you can almost taste the sorrows and regrets that were laid to rest here.
As I stand in the coliseums center I can hear the roaring of the crowd cheering their team on. The fighters practicing their stance, blacksmiths sharpening their blades, and kings addressing their people like equal opportunists.
Looking around I notice how odd the window I'm looking in is just being here. 
The walls and floors of this monument are all stone and brick. Why was this hole right here? Where one peek in shows you just what was going on inside. 
If I recall a museum tried to clean this place up once and bring it back to its former glory. They came in and quickly removed all the shards and rock laying around and started rebuilding. But just as quickly as they tore it down, did they vanish. Guess their money ran dry. Kinda odd though considering they had ads in the paper and even ran little campaigns aimed at drawing people back here. That couln't have been cheap. And people with that kind money usually know how to budget, or have someone to do it for them. Maybe this window was just that. Another project thought up by the museum abandoned before it ever even got used. 
I cant help but sympathize with the coliseum itself. 
Thousands of pound of gold and silver. Thousands of miles crossed for materials. The greatest architects from each hemisphere sent right here. To put their blood sweat and tears into making this place into something that would stand the test of time. Then years spent enjoying that which was built by communion. Sorrows laid to rest. Fears put at ease. And hungry mouths fed without expected recompression. Turned to ruble and ash in the blink of an eye. Taken up by a favorable bunch promising to everyone to restore it to its former glory and then some. Only to leave it so ruined no one can tell which country a column originates from. 
Come to think of it. Why does these pillars still stand at all?
They are there for no one. and for no reason.
I guess thats a lie. I'm still standing right here in the center of all just racking my brain wondering why? But its just me standing here. No other soul around. Funny how times change.s